README.rst, before:

===================================================
 drainers - Event-based draining of process output
===================================================

drainers is an abstraction around `subprocess.Popen` to read and control
process output event-wise.  It also allows you to abort running processes
either gracefully or forcefully without having to directly interact with the
processes or threads themself.

Overview
========

Defining a process
------------------
A `Drainer` is a factory and controller wrapper around
`subprocess.Popen` and therefore takes all of the (optional) parameters
that `subprocess.Popen`'s initializer takes.  For example, the minimal
`Drainer` takes a command array::

	from drainers import Drainer

	def ignore_event(line, is_err):
		pass

	my_drainer = Drainer(['ls', '-la'], read_event_cb=ignore_event)
	my_drainer.start()

But, extra arguments are allowed, too::

	my_drainer = Drainer(['echo', '$JAVA_HOME'], shell=True, bufsize=64,
						 read_event_cb=ignore_event)
	my_drainer.start()

The only two arguments to `Drainer` that are reserved are
`stdout` and `stderr`.  `Drainer` requires them to be
`subprocess.PIPE` explicitly, and sets them for you accordingly.

Defining a callback
-------------------
`Drainer`'s strength lies in the fact that each line that is read from the
process' standard output or standard error streams leads to a callback
function being invoked.  This allows you to process virtually any process'
output, as long as it's line-based.

The callback function can be specified using the `read_event_cb` parameter to
the constructor, as seen in the example above.  It is mandatory.  The callback
function specified needs to have a specific signature::

	def my_callback(line, is_err):
		...

It should take two parameters: `line` (a string) and `is_err` (a boolean).
The latter indicates that the line is read from the standard error stream.
There is nothing more to it.  It does not need to return anything: it's return
value will be ignored.  Your callback may be a class method, too, like in the
following example.  Notice that in those cases, you pass `foo.my_method` as
the value for the `read_event_cb` parameter::

	class MyClass(object):

		def my_method(self, line, is_err):
			...
	
	foo = MyClass()
	my_drainer = Drainer(['ls'], read_event_cb=foo.my_method)
	my_drainer.start()

The granularity currently is a single line.  If you want to read predefined
chunks of data, please fork this repo and implement a `Drainer` subclass
yourself.  If you want a callback that isn't invoked after each line read, but
after an arbitrary time or amount of lines, you have to implement this
yourself.  (It shouldn't be too hard, though.  See the `examples` directory
for inspiration.)

Aborting processes
------------------
`Drainer` allows you to abort a running process in the middle of execution,
forcefully sending the process a `terminate()` message (Python equivalent of a
Unix `SIGTERM` message) when a certain condition arises.  By default, the
process will never be terminated abnormally.  To specify termination criteria,
implement a callback function that takes no parameters and returns `True` if
abortion is desired and `False` otherwise.  For example, for a long running
process you might want to terminate it if the disk is getting (almost) full.
But checking how much space is free can be a lengthy operation, so you might
want to do it only sparingly::

	def out_of_diskspace():
		left = handytools.check_disk_free()
		total = handytools.check_disk_total()
		return (left / total) < 0.03

	# The following drainer executes the cruncher and checks whether the disk
	# is (almost) full every 5 seconds.  It aborts if free disk space runs
	# under 3%.
	my_drainer = Drainer(['/bin/crunch', 'inputfile', 'outputfile'],
	                     read_event_cb=ignore_event,
						 should_abort=out_of_diskspace,
						 check_interval=5.0)
	exitcode = my_drainer.start()

The example is pretty self-explaining.  You can check the exitcode to see the
result of the process.


More examples
=============
See the `examples` directory for more detailed examples.

Commit message:

Updated README and example to mention BufferedDrainer.

README.rst, after:

===================================================
 drainers - Event-based draining of process output
===================================================

drainers is an abstraction around `subprocess.Popen` to read and control
process output event-wise.  It also allows you to abort running processes
either gracefully or forcefully without having to directly interact with the
processes or threads themself.

Overview
========

Defining a process
------------------
A `Drainer` is a factory and controller wrapper around
`subprocess.Popen` and therefore takes all of the (optional) parameters
that `subprocess.Popen`'s initializer takes.  For example, the minimal
`Drainer` takes a command array::

	from drainers import Drainer

	def ignore_event(line, is_err):
		pass

	my_drainer = Drainer(['ls', '-la'], read_event_cb=ignore_event)
	my_drainer.start()

But, extra arguments are allowed, too::

	my_drainer = Drainer(['echo', '$JAVA_HOME'], shell=True, bufsize=64,
						 read_event_cb=ignore_event)
	my_drainer.start()

The only two arguments to `Drainer` that are reserved are
`stdout` and `stderr`.  `Drainer` requires them to be
`subprocess.PIPE` explicitly, and sets them for you accordingly.

Defining a callback
-------------------
`Drainer`'s strength lies in the fact that each line that is read from the
process' standard output or standard error streams leads to a callback
function being invoked.  This allows you to process virtually any process'
output, as long as it's line-based.

The callback function can be specified using the `read_event_cb` parameter to
the constructor, as seen in the example above.  It is mandatory.  The callback
function specified needs to have a specific signature::

	def my_callback(line, is_err):
		...

It should take two parameters: `line` (a string) and `is_err` (a boolean).
The latter indicates that the line is read from the standard error stream.
There is nothing more to it.  It does not need to return anything: it's return
value will be ignored.  Your callback may be a class method, too, like in the
following example.  Notice that in those cases, you pass `foo.my_method` as
the value for the `read_event_cb` parameter::

	class MyClass(object):

		def my_method(self, line, is_err):
			...
	
	foo = MyClass()
	my_drainer = Drainer(['ls'], read_event_cb=foo.my_method)
	my_drainer.start()

The granularity currently is a single line.  If you want to read predefined
chunks (lines) of data, use `BufferedDrainer` instead.  See
examples/buffer_results.py for an example.

Aborting processes
------------------
`Drainer` allows you to abort a running process in the middle of execution,
forcefully sending the process a `terminate()` message (Python equivalent of a
Unix `SIGTERM` message) when a certain condition arises.  By default, the
process will never be terminated abnormally.  To specify termination criteria,
implement a callback function that takes no parameters and returns `True` if
abortion is desired and `False` otherwise.  For example, for a long running
process you might want to terminate it if the disk is getting (almost) full.
But checking how much space is free can be a lengthy operation, so you might
want to do it only sparingly::

	def out_of_diskspace():
		left = handytools.check_disk_free()
		total = handytools.check_disk_total()
		return (left / total) < 0.03

	# The following drainer executes the cruncher and checks whether the disk
	# is (almost) full every 5 seconds.  It aborts if free disk space runs
	# under 3%.
	my_drainer = Drainer(['/bin/crunch', 'inputfile', 'outputfile'],
	                     read_event_cb=ignore_event,
						 should_abort=out_of_diskspace,
						 check_interval=5.0)
	exitcode = my_drainer.start()

The example is pretty self-explaining.  You can check the exitcode to see the
result of the process.


More examples
=============
See the `examples` directory for more detailed examples.
